[Music]
look you might consider yourself an
especially careful and attentive person
but sometimes even being on your guard
won't help you keep your valuables safe
over 400-thousand pickpocketing related
incidents happen around the world each
and every day in New York City alone
about 3,000 crimes of this type occur
every month that's like a hundred a day
in fact police say that this number is
much higher since a lot of cases go
unreported
I'd say it's best to arm yourself with
knowledge so that you can avoid being
pickpocketed and having your day totally
ruined
first off let's debunk some common myths
about pickpocketing that you yourself
probably have number one surely I'd feel
somebody putting their hand in my bag or
pocket and tried to pull my wallet out
[Music]
well the statement couldn't be more
inaccurate pickpockets are able to steal
your things since they use misdirection
distraction and compassion you have no
chances of staying focused when a
professional criminal doesn't want you
to be and they'll take advantage of any
situation around a crowd gawking at a
car crash a subway car or elevator
filled to the brim in these situations
you won't notice when someone bumps
india' number 2 my documents and money
are safe in my inner pockets well even
though they say that inner jacket
pockets or front jeans pockets are your
best bet to keep thieves away since
they're the hardest to get into this
doesn't make any difference whatsoever
for a trained pickpocket
however a good idea might be to use a
money belt
they make it hard enough for you to get
to your cash let alone a criminal
number three I avoid crowds at all costs
so I don't need to worry about
pickpockets while it's true that
pickpockets have more opportunities to
do their dirty work in crowded places
don't forget that more often than not
they operate in teams and together they
can put on an oscar-worthy roleplay just
to distract you this can happen anywhere
in a park or even near your house still
busier areas are more favorable for
pickpockets here are some of their top
choice places to rob people
museums beaches open markets and grocery
stores restaurants and cafes public
transport bus stops subway stations and
enroute train stations and airports the
worst part is that it's usually next to
impossible to find a pickpocket after
they've already stolen your belongings
which is why most of them go unpunished
but still knowing who and how the attack
can help you avoid becoming their next
victim
so here are some of the most commonly
used pickpocketing schemes you should
know about sandwich Aang their victim
this is an all-time pickpocket favorite
they can do it anywhere crowded or not
it goes like this criminal number one
forces the victim to stop suddenly they
might ask for directions or drop a bag
full of groceries spilling the contents
everywhere most people will stop to help
someone in need and it's exactly when
this Good Samaritan is focused on the
map or bending over to pick up the
groceries that criminal number two goes
in for the attack he accidentally bumps
into the victim apologizes profusely and
walks away with a stolen wallet
[Music]
fake drowning
another ploy used to play on human
compassion can be found at the beach one
of the thieves pretends to be drowning
while the other one waits for anybody
who rushes into the water to save the
inexperienced swimmer after that they
just leave the beach with whatever that
volunteer lifeguard left lying on their
towel pretending to have been robbed
sometimes in a crowded place you might
hear a person scream somebody stolen my
wallet of course after this everybody
usually starts checking if their
valuables are safe they Pat their
pockets or open their bags and peek
inside what they don't realize is that
this is just a trick to help pickpockets
determine with 100% precision where
everybody keeps their money so if you
ever hear this exclamation ignore it
using kids
[Music]
pickpockets will use any means necessary
to distract you even if it means playing
dirty
real dirty what I mean is that they'll
eagerly involve children in their
criminal schemes for instance they'll
send a cute little kid to distract you
by showing their drawing or toy while an
adult member of the crooked crew or even
another child sneaks up on you from
behind a fight another a pretty common
trick pickpockets use is to pretend to
start a fight this brawl often attracts
a small crowd of onlookers and while
people stand around gawking at the
violence another member or members of
the shady Bunch
simply goes around collecting wallets
from the inattentive observers
singling tourists out
one of the most common targets for
pickpockets is a lonesome tourist and if
you think that it's enough to simply
avoid bad neighborhoods when visiting a
new city this misconception may cost you
your valuables first of all being in an
unfamiliar place especially in a foreign
country you can't be sure that the area
where you found yourself is completely
safe this is particularly true when it
comes to pickpocketing criminals go
where their victims in this case
unaware tourists go secondly it's not
necessarily the area but your own
behavior that makes a pickpocket single
you out if you're aware of your
surroundings focused and careful most
pickpockets won't see you as an easy
target while crime can happen absolutely
anywhere you might want to be especially
cautious if you spend your next vacation
in one of the following cities which are
notorious for high levels of
pickpocketing Hanoi Vietnam Rome Italy
Barcelona Spain Madrid Spain Paris
France
Buenos Aires Argentina Amsterdam the
Netherlands Athens Greece Florence Italy
Prague the Czech Republic how to protect
yourself from pickpockets
[Music]
first of all make it hard for criminals
to get to your belongings
don't keep your wallet in your back
pocket or in a bag that doesn't close
entirely if you don't have a choice then
put your wallet in your front pocket but
be aware of your surroundings also make
sure that nothing sticks out of your
pocket avoid big crowds you can probably
see by now that pickpockets have
mastered the art of infiltrating and
blending in it's a piece of cake for
them to steal anything from anybody and
get away with it don't constantly touch
your bag or your pocket where you keep
your wallet or money this is like a big
glowing arrow pointing thieves to the
place where your valuables are hey come
and get it yeah it's right here
never count your money in public don't
rummage through your wallet either the
first nono will let a pickpocket know
that you have money and even how much
money you have the second one will make
it too easy for a skilled criminal to
snatch your wallet from your hands and
run away if you carry a purse shorten
the strap your bag shouldn't dangle
freely below your waist it's better to
have it so that the opening is right
under your elbow if your bag has outer
pockets don't put anything valuable
there use them for your tissues hair
brush makeup or a book your cell phone
and wallet should be hidden as deep
inside your bag as possible always close
all clasps and zippers on your purse or
book bag even if you know that you'll
have to open it again in a minute when
you go out take only the bare minimum if
you're abroad leave your ID credit cards
and any money you won't be needing in
the hotel safe
if you go to a place notorious for
pickpocketing incidents it may be a good
idea to prepare a fake wallet
this isn't your real wallet of course
just a copy that way you can trick
criminals into thinking they've snatched
your real one as for the wallet with all
your money keep it in your secret pocket
if you travel with a backpack where at
the other way around
on your front yeah sure it might look
goofy but
measure will most likely protect your
belongings and still don't carry
anything valuable in there and finally
always be careful with your things
don't leave your belongings unattended
don't hang your purse or bag on the back
of your chair in a restaurant or cafe
and don't leave it at the table when you
go to the bathroom so do you have your
own tips on how to protect yourself from
pickpockets tell us all about it in the
comments below remember to give us a
like and subscribe to our channel to
stay on the bright side of life I dove
la
[Music]